The first thing we want to do is we want to set up our Google Maps API keys because we need a key to
be able to work with that API.
It is not a public API that we can use without a key for it and you can search for Google Maps API and
you'll find a couple of results and you can go to dad maps javascript API.
Now on that page here you can learn basically everything about using the Google Maps Javascript SDK
and API and DST K is basically the tool sets that allows you to write code that displays and manage
a city map in your application and the API is what works behind the scenes and to which your Google
Maps Javascript SDK connects automatically.
That is why I use these terms interchangeably.
So what we'll need to do to use Javascript SDK is we need to set up an API key.
Now let me also emphasize that will of course not use everything you find here.
We'll actually only use a subset of the features you could use with Google Maps and therefore definitely
check out these docs here if you want to build an application that relies way more on google maps than
ours does.
So our first step is to get an API key here on the left side.
And for that here you can see you must enable billing.
Now that is a thing you need a Google account and you need to enable billing in that account.
Now what does this mean is does API not for free.
Can you not use it for free.
Well if you go to the ad maps Chow's script API usage and billing page you can learn more about that
and you'll learn that.
You basically are built but there is a free quota and dead free quota is pretty generous.
So you actually can use the API for free.
For example you get 200 dollar credit every month and dad suffices for a lot of requests.
You can see what a request costs down there but it is worth noting that it is generally not for free.
You need a Google map.
You need a Google account and a credit card.
And if you don't have that you unfortunately can't use Google Maps API anymore.
You can of course look for alternatives like map blocks.
In this case.
So that is the billing part with Dad.
Let's go back here and assuming you have a Google account and you set up billing there.
You can get an API key by clicking on get started here on there.
Get an API key section.
This takes us to this page and there you can choose the maps box here and you see which API is will
now be unlocked and that is the maps javascript API which we need.
It is all of the maps static API which we will use as well and we will actually also need the places
box here because we will use the geo coding API as well for converting coordinates into an address.
So make sure to pick these two sections here and continue after you want to choose a project and you
can actually select your firebase project here as I did and you have to agree to these terms and now
these API will be enabled for you.
This now takes you to d developer console where you are prompted for a couple of things.
And you're done now.
This is the API key which you'll have to use when you actually import the Javascript SDK into your project
and that is the part where we will continue in the next lecture.